.TH FLUME 1 "2026-04-01" "Flume 1.2.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
flume \- modern terminal IRC client
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B flume
[\fB\-\-server\fR \fIname\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Flume is a fast, modern, terminal-based IRC client built in Rust. It supports
multi-server connections, a rich TUI with theming and split views, a dual
scripting engine (Lua and Python), and LLM-powered script generation.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-\-server " " \fIname\fR
Connect to a specific server on startup (by network name from irc.toml).
.SH COMMANDS
.SS Chat
.TP
.B /join \fIchannel\fR [\fIkey\fR]
Join a channel.
.TP
.B /part [\fIchannel\fR] [\fImessage\fR]
Leave a channel.
.TP
.B /msg \fItarget\fR \fItext\fR
Send a private message.
.TP
.B /me \fItext\fR
Send an action.
.TP
.B /nick \fInick\fR
Change nickname.
.TP
.B /quit [\fImessage\fR]
Quit Flume.
.SS Navigation
.TP
.B /buffer \fIname\fR
Switch to a buffer.
.TP
.B /switch \fIserver\fR
Switch to a server.
.TP
.B /close
Close the active buffer.
.TP
.B /search \fIpattern\fR
Search buffer contents.
.SS Splits
.TP
.B /split v|h \fIbuffer\fR
Split the view vertically or horizontally.
.TP
.B /unsplit
Close the split view.
.TP
.B /focus
Swap focus between split panes.
.TP
.B /layout save|load|list|delete \fIname\fR
Manage saved split layouts.
.SS Scripting
.TP
.B /script load \fIname\fR
Load a Lua or Python script.
.TP
.B /script unload \fIname\fR
Unload a script.
.TP
.B /script list
List loaded scripts.
.SS Generation (LLM)
.TP
.B /generate script \fIdescription\fR
Generate a Lua script from a natural language description.
.TP
.B /generate theme \fIdescription\fR
Generate a theme from a description.
.TP
.B /generate accept|reject
Accept or discard the generated content.
.SS DCC
.TP
.B /dcc list
Show DCC transfers.
.TP
.B /dcc accept [\fIid\fR]
Accept a DCC offer.
.TP
.B /dcc send \fInick\fR \fIfile\fR
Send a file via DCC.
.TP
.B /xdcc \fIbot\fR \fIpack#\fR
Request an XDCC pack.
.SS Server Management
.TP
.B /server add \fIname\fR \fIaddress\fR [\fIport\fR] [\fI-tls|-notls\fR] [\fI-autoconnect\fR]
Add a network.
.TP
.B /server list
List configured networks.
.TP
.B /save
Save configuration to disk.
.SS Vault
.TP
.B /secure set \fIname\fR \fIvalue\fR
Store a secret in the vault.
.TP
.B /secure list
List stored secrets.
.SH KEYBINDINGS
.TP
.B Ctrl+C
Quit.
.TP
.B Ctrl+X
Cycle servers.
.TP
.B Alt+1-9
Jump to buffer by number.
.TP
.B Alt+Left/Right
Cycle buffers.
.TP
.B PageUp/Down
Scroll buffer.
.TP
.B Tab
Nick completion.
.PP
Keybinding mode is configurable: Emacs (default) or Vi. Set in config.toml:
.br
[ui.keybindings]
.br
mode = "emacs"  # or "vi"
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.config/flume/config.toml
Main configuration file.
.TP
.I ~/.config/flume/irc.toml
Network/server definitions.
.TP
.I ~/.config/flume/themes/
Theme files.
.TP
.I ~/.config/flume/scripts/autoload/
Scripts loaded automatically on startup.
.TP
.I ~/.local/share/flume/vault.toml
Encrypted secrets vault.
.TP
.I ~/.local/share/flume/logs/
IRC message logs.
.SH AUTHOR
Emilio Escobar
.SH LICENSE
Apache-2.0
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR irssi (1),
.BR weechat (1)
